---
layout: default
---
<h1> My QA Playbook</h1>
<b>QA done right.</b>

***

## Milestone 1 - Initiate Project

At kickoff the tester will learn details about the project that is about to launch. 
(QAs must be offered consistent, comprehensive, traceable requirements and clearly marked. )
This information should be sufficient to understand the very basic asks of the project. 
It is at this point I will be able to assess what's important, more directly, why does this project matter? 

Main idea:
- Analyze & Understand the Requirements
    * People
    * Questions
    * knowledge transfer
    * Agile Testing, Manual Testing, Automation Testing
    * Research tooling
    * Define a quality strategy

***  

### People
  - Identify the people who possess project knowledge 
  - Identify the people who possess power to influence change (stakeholders, PM)

### Asking questions to gather relevant information.
    * When is the release date?
    * What does success look like?
    * What is the overall ask that this project is answering

### Knowledge Transfer

- New project
    * it is essential to make sure you have all the access to relevant docs
      and tools.
- Continued project
    * make sure you have all the access to relevant docs
    * make sure to set up a meeting (recorded) that explains all relevant workflows and procedures.

### Agile Testing, Manual Testing, Automation Testing
- Make QA result-oriented:
  * Agile development methods prioritize smaller goals and targets to be handled in smaller increments with greater speed (focused on specific objectives.) 
- Make something else (in progress)
    
### Research tooling
Every step has its tool.
QA professionals should be involved in analyzing and defining software requirements,
both functional and non-functional.

### Define a quality strategy
If you are working with existing software try to determine what knowledge the overall team possesses 
to understand the pain points of building a new system in tandem with the old. 

If you're building a new piece of software consider what knowledge and understanding can be gathered before the team begins to build. 

## Milestone 1 summary: Agile QA Foundations
### Learning Agile Jargon (with a pinch of salt):
* Familiarize yourself with Agile terms like "user stories," "velocity," and "sprints." 
* Soon you'll be speaking in tongues and pretending it's making a difference.

### Learning Adaptability, or the Art of Dancing on Quicksand:
* Agile is all about adapting to change, even when the changes arrive at the speed of light. 
* Get ready to rewrite test cases, shift priorities, and question your existence on a daily basis.

### Learning Collaborating with Developers (Deep breaths, deep breaths):
* Developers are our partners in crime, whether they like it or not. 
* Collaborate, communicate, and silently judge their coding skills while maintaining an illusion of diplomacy.



***

### Additional Note:
- Preventing bugs during the requirements design stage is more cost-effective than detecting and fixing them during testing.
Therefore,

```
>> cost (fixing bug in prod) > cost (fixing bug in test)

>> cost (fixing bug in test) > cost (fixing bug in requirement design)
```

***
> [Milestone 1](./playbook/01.html) || [Milestone 2](./02.html) || [Milestone 3](./03.html) || [Milestone 4](./04.html) || [Milestone 5](05.html) 

***
> [Milestone 6](06.html) || [Milestone 7](07.html) || [Milestone 8](08.html) || [Milestone 9](09.html) ||  [back](../)

