---
layout: default
---
<h1> My QA Playbook</h1>
<b>QA done right.</b>

***

## Milestone 3 - Agile Test Plan 

> Outline your testing strategy, scope, objectives, timelines, and resource allocation.

### An Agile test plan is a living document 
- evolves throughout the project, adapting to changes and incorporating feedback from the team.
- outlines the approach, objectives, and strategies for testing in an Agile software development project. 
- focus is on collaboration, flexibility, and delivering high-quality software in an iterative and incremental manner.

### Test Strategy 
Define
- the testing levels (unit, integration, system, etc.), 
- the types of testing (functional, performance, security, etc.), and 
- any specific methodologies or techniques to be used.

### Test Scope 
- outline the features, modules, or user stories to be tested. 
- specify relevant requirements or functionalities that need to be covered by the testing effort.

### Test Schedule 
- high-level timeline for the testing activities. 
  - Since Agile projects work in iterations or sprints, the test plan should align with the iterations and highlight the testing activities to be conducted within each iteration.

### Test Environment 
- necessary hardware, software, and network setup required for testing. 
- details about test data, test tools, and any test environment configurations needed.

### Test Deliverables 
- Enumerate the key artifacts or deliverables to be produced during the testing process, such as 
  - test cases, 
  - test scripts, 
  - test data sets, 
  - defect reports, and 
  - test summary reports.

### Test Metrics
- Specify the metrics/measurements to be used to assess the test progress and quality. 

This may include metrics like 
- test coverage, 
- defect density, 
- test execution progress, and 
- pass/fail rates.

***
> [Milestone 1](./01.html) || [Milestone 2](./02.html) || [Milestone 3](./03.html) || [Milestone 4](./04.html) || [Milestone 5](05.html) 

***
> [Milestone 6](06.html) || [Milestone 7](07.html) || [Milestone 8](08.html) || [Milestone 9](09.html) ||  [back](../)

