---
layout: default
---
<h1> My QA Playbook</h1>
<b>QA done right.</b>

***

## Milestone 6 - Triage Defects - [draft#3]

It depends on the company and the complexity of the software. 
In a bigger company (more complex software) the following steps 
would be seperated from the bug filing.<br> 
Example: the software has multiple features and each feature 
is a different dev team. 
Therefore each feature/dev team has its own way to handle things. 
Step1: Tester reports a bug and assigns the bug to the triage person.
Step2: Triage person double check the report and assignes it to the feature owner (responsible dev) to fix it.

### Step1
**Validate and reproduce the defect** 
* Ensure that the defect can be reproduced consistently. 
* Verify that the issue is indeed a defect and not a user error or misunderstanding. 
* Reproducing the defect helps developers understand the problem and assists in resolution.

### Step2
**Analyze and categorize the defect** 
* Closely examine the defect to identify its root cause. 
* Categorize the defect based on the affected functionality or module, making it easier to track and assign to the appropriate development team or individual.

### Step3
**Assign the defect to the responsible party** 
* Once the defect is analyzed and categorized, assign it to the appropriate developer or development team responsible for resolving it. 
* Provide sufficient information and context to aid their understanding and resolution efforts.

### Step4
**Communicate and collaborate** 
* Maintain open lines of communication with all stakeholders involved in the defect triage process, including testers, developers, project managers, and product owners. 
* Collaboration ensures that everyone is aware of the defect's status, progress, and resolution timeline.

### Step5
**Monitor and track progress**
* Regularly monitor the defect's progress, keeping track of its status as it moves through the resolution process. 
* Update the defect tracking system with the latest information, including any changes in status, comments, or additional findings.

### Step6
**Retest and verify the fix** 
* After the developer resolves the defect, the tester should retest it to ensure the fix is successful and has not introduced any new issues. 
* Validate that the defect is fully resolved according to the specified requirements.

### Step7
**Close the defect** 
* Once the defect has been retested and verified, it can be closed. 
* Update the defect tracking system with the final status, resolution details, and any relevant notes or comments. Ensure proper documentation for future reference.



***
> [Milestone 1](./playbook/01.md) || [Milestone 2](./playbook/02.md) || [Milestone 3](./playbook/03.md) || [Milestone 4](./playbook/04.md) || [Milestone 5](05.md) 

***
> [Milestone 6](06.md) || [Milestone 7](07.md) || [Milestone 8](08.md) || [Milestone 9](09.md) ||  [back](../)

