---
title: Python set&dict
layout: default
---

## set&dict

> Sets and dictionaries are unordered collections of items.

> They serve different purposes due to their unique properties.

### In Common Unordered

- Both sets and dictionaries do not have a defined order for their elements. This means you cannot rely on the order of insertion or any other order when iterating over them. The elements are stored in a way that makes retrieval efficient, but the order of elements is not guaranteed.

### In Common Mutability

- meaning you can add or remove elements from a set.
- Dictionaries are mutable as well, allowing for the addition, removal, or modification of key-value pairs.

```python
# Adding elements to a set
my_set.add(6)
print(my_set)  # Output: {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6}

# Adding a new key-value pair to a dictionary
my_dict['d'] = 4
print(my_dict)  # Output: {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3, 'd': 4}
```

### differences between sets and dictionaries:

Accessing Elements:
- Sets are accessed by iterating over the set or by checking for membership.
- Dictionaries are accessed using keys.

```python
# Accessing elements in a set
for element in my_set:
    print(element)  # Output: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5

# Accessing elements in a dictionary
print(my_dict['a'])  # Output: 1
```

About accessing [dictionaries]()

Sets: 

- A set is a collection of unique elements. Each element in a set must be unique, and duplicate elements are automatically removed. 
- Sets are unordered, meaning the elements are not stored in any particular order.
- Sets are typically used when you want to perform operations like intersection, union, and difference between collections.

Example

```python
# Creating a set
my_set = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
print(my_set)  # Output: {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
```

Dictionaries: 

- A dictionary is a collection of key-value pairs. Each element in a dictionary consists of a key and its associated value. 
- Dictionaries are unordered as well, but from Python 3.7 onwards, insertion order of keys is preserved. In Python 3.6 and earlier, dictionaries are unordered.
- Keys in a dictionary must be unique, but the values can be duplicated. 
- Dictionaries are useful for storing and retrieving data based on some unique identifier (the key).

Example

```python
# Creating a dictionary
my_dict = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3}
print(my_dict)  # Output: {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3}
```

---

| Data Type  | Content Type  | Sequence  | Mutable  | defined Order  |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| string  | characters  | yes  | no  |  |
| list  | anything  | yes  | yes  |  |
| tuple  | anything  | yes  | no  |  |
| range  | integers  | yes  | no  |  |
| set  | immutable items  | no  | yes  | unordered collections |
| dictionary  | immutable items  | no  | yes  | unordered collections |
